# Backoffice APIs

This section describes the consent view and revocation APIs for the Opus Open Banking Backoffice Portal.

## Open API Specification

The API Rest definitions in Open API Specification 3.0 format can be found
[here](./oas-oob-consents.yaml).

## Consent Listing

        GET /open-banking/oob-consents/v1/consents

The consent listing API allows listing the consents linked
to an owner, who must be identified in one of the following ways:

`cpf`: Identifies the individual responsible for creating the consent.
It should contain only the digits.

**Example**: *99999999999*.

`consent-owner`: Set of information defined by the Institution to identify
the consent owner such as agency, account, CPF, CNPJ, etc.
It is represented by a *key/value* dictionary in *JSON URL Encoded* format.

**Example**: For an identifier formed by agency and account:

```json
[{"key": "conta", "value": "12345"}, {"key": "agencia", "value": "12345"}]
```

**Json URL encoded**:

```text
%5B%7B%22key%22%3A%20%22conta%22%2C%20%22value%22%3A%20%2212345%22%7D%2C%20%7B%22key%22%3A%20%22agencia%22%2C%20%22value%22%3A%20%2212345%22%7D%5D
```
Additionally, the following information can be used to filter the results:

`createdOnBegin`: Indicates the minimum creation date (inclusive) for querying consents.
It must be provided with date and time in the format specified in [RFC-3339](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3339).

**Example**: 2022-12-19T16:39:57Z.

`createdOnEnd`: Indicates the maximum creation date (inclusive) for querying consents.
It must be provided with date and time in the format specified in [RFC-3339](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc3339).

**Example**: 2023-01-19T16:39:57-01:00.

`type`: Limits the query to payment or data sharing consents represented, respectively, by the values *PAYMENT* and *DATA_SHARING*.

`status`: Limits the query to consents with the specified status. For payment consents, it supports the values defined in the [Open Banking state machine](https://openfinancebrasil.atlassian.net/wiki/spaces/OF/pages/345178187/M+quina+de+Estados+-+v1.0.0+-+SV+Pagamentos+Autom+ticos). For data sharing consents, it supports the values *AWAITING_AUTHORISATION*, *AUTHORISED*, and *REJECTED*, which vary according to their [basic flow](https://openbanking-brasil.github.io/areadesenvolvedor/documents/fluxo_basico_consentimento.pdf).

`modalityType`[*1](#observações): Limits the query to immediate or scheduled payment consents represented, respectively, by the values *IMMEDIATE* and *SCHEDULED*.

`paymentType`[*1](#observações): Limits the query to payment consents. It supports the types: *PIX* (Instant Payment), *TED* (Disponible Electronic Transfer), or *TEF* (Financial electronic transfer).

## Consent Details

        GET /open-banking/oob-consents/v1/consents/{consentId}

This API is responsible for retrieving all information about a consent,
including the resources and a history of status changes made. The query is made through the internal identifier in UUID format.

## Consent Revocation (Deprecated)

        PATCH /open-banking/oob-consents/v1/consents/{consentId}

The usage is equivalent to the payment consent revocation below, but this endpoint will be discontinued.

## Data Sharing Consent Revocation

        PATCH /open-banking/oob-consents/consents/v1/consents/{consentId}

Responsible for revoking the consent related to the specified *consentId*.

## Active Data Sharing Consents Listing

        GET /open-banking/oob-consents/consents/v2/active

Responsible for listing authorized consents. It has two optional parameters:
- startDate: If provided, selects all active consents that were created after this date.
- endDate: If provided, selects all consents whose expiration is before the provided date.
  - Indeterminate consents will not be returned when this parameter is provided.
- page: Desired page number.
- page-size: Page size.

## Listing Payments Related to a Consent

        GET /open-banking/oob-consents/consents/v1/consents/{consentId}/payments

Displays the list of all payments related to the consent identified by the specified *consentId*.

## Payment Consent Revocation

        PATCH /open-banking/oob-consents/payments/v1/consents/{consentId}

Responsible for revoking automatic payment consents identified by the specified *consentId*.

## Payment Revocation

        PATCH /open-banking/oob-payments/v2/pix/payments/{paymentId}

Responsible for revoking the payment related to the open-banking identifier *paymentId*.

## Listing Payment Ids Generated by ITP

        GET /open-banking/oob-consents/v1/tpps/payment-legacy-ids

Lists the payment ids generated by ITPs within a time range defined by the parameters:

`startDate`: Indicates the minimum creation date (inclusive) of the payment id. Must be provided as a date.

**Example**: 2022-12-19.

`endDate`: Indicates the maximum creation date (inclusive) of the payment id. Must be provided as a date.

**Example**: 2022-12-25.

## Payment Status Change Notification

        POST /open-banking/oob-consents/v1/payment-status-notification

Responsible for notifying the OOB of a payment status change.

## Consent Extension Details

        GET /open-banking/oob-consents/v1/consents/{consentId}/extends

This API is responsible for listing all extensions of a consent.
The query is made through the internal identifier in UUID format.

## Authentication

To access the endpoints listed here, a token generated from the *Client Credentials* flow in the non-regulatory base path of the Authorization Server must be used.

The AS configuration, as well as details for creating clients, can be found in the [deploy](../../deploy/oob-authorization-server/readme.md) section.

The necessary scopes for access are listed in the [security](../../segurança/apis/readme.md#oob-consents) section.

## Notes

- `*1`: Can only be used for payment consent queries.
